First this requires some recent history. Some two weeks ago I recieved the Raspberry foundation RP2040 Pico MCU. While the initial demos and simplistic Thonny IDE were adequate a challenge presented by a friend found me and this simple system wanting. After flailing around for these previous weeks I commited (I know irony, right?) to this approach.

The aim is to build a personally effective Python (uPY and cPY varients) development system. While suggestions were made -- I am a visual user not a CLI geek. This seeming contradiction is mittigated by my experience in publishing and writing. Most applications I use are GUI and WISIWIG based offering me a visual reference to manipulate and place the text and images I create. This is the distinction between and GUI and CLI, all or most control elements are 'click' or text respectively. 

You may imagine that in the early computing days I was both, around and a reluctant though interested user. I even bought a Swiss mouse and "Wogs" (Widowed opperating graphical system) for the Amstrad CPC464 in the mid 1980s, it needed too much RAM to be useful but it turned my head away from the CLI world into a GUI user and my next computer. The Amiga 500 and its amazing Workbench fitted my predilictions and biases spawning the first real debate between CLI and GUI users. BTW, these are Amiga terms I still use today. 

Enough moaning, back to work. These suggestions were from a CLI developer geek so somewhat challenging for me. This pricipitated my confusion and misdirected effort along with other factors. But the realisation of this personal truth has reenvigorated this quest for MCU development skills. By concentrating on a visual development workflow I can harness my bias and be less unproductive. Part of the confusion was the implication and historical notion of C as a root language. The Pi Pico arrived with two SDK guides, C/C++ and Micropython. While the main, C SDK, was easier to install it complicated a fraught decision matrix for the inexperienced but knowledgable user. 

Further there are two 'Python for MCU' variants available, uPython and cPython (Micro and Circuit Pythons respectively.) cPython can be confused with CPython used on PC's and SBC's. The differences between are distinct and both are incompatible with the other although they both work within CPython. First uPython is a serious community effort to replicate the power and capabilities of CPython on MCU's. Whereas Circuit or cPython was developed to simplify sensor and display deployments for the average unskilled consumer. Again, both are implementing ports for the RP2040 MCU, uPython with formal support fron the Raspberry Pi foundation while Adafruit is both, building RP2040 boards and porting cPython with informal support from the foundation. 

Onto what my activities yesterday and today have wrought before now. Decisions, concentrate on Python and its variants, learn a more sophisticated IDE (VSC, Visual Studio Code) and create an ordered file structure that spans the veriaty of platforms I use. Some research and notions of effective development indicated version control is important leading to the use of Git and Github. Also, I determined that I need to establish a complete development environment including uPython and cPython source trees. This required learning how to use Git, a CLI application so I sought a GUI option. This led to the Github Desktop application that this document is being used to experiment with. 

